# WSP004 Revision Bonus Exercise

## Exercise 1

Tags: `typescript`, `oop`

&nbsp;

In this exercise, please pick one of the following question and finish it.

### The Reading List (Medium)

Reference: https://github.com/gSchool/JS-Intro-OOP-Exercises

An object-oriented book-list!

- Create a class BookList

- Create another class called Book

- BookLists should have the following properties:

  - Number of books marked as read

  - Number of books marked not read yet

  - A reference to the next book to read (book object)

  - A reference to the current book being read (book object)

  - A reference to the last book read (book object)

  - An array of all the Books

- Each Book should have several properties:

  - id (Number, auto generated by program)

  - title (String)

  - genre (String)

  - author (String)

  - isRead (Boolean)

  - readDate, can be blank, otherwise needs to be a JS Date() object

- Every BookList should have a few methods:

  - .add(book)

    - should add a book to the books list.

  - .finishCurrentBook()

    - should mark the book that is currently being read as "read"

    - Give it a read date of new Date(Date.now())

    - Change the last book read to be the book that just got finished

    - Change the current book to be the next book to be read

    - Change the next book to be read property to be the first unread book you find in the list of books

- Booklists and Books might need more methods than that. Try to think of more that might be useful.

&nbsp;

### Simple Pokemon Battle Simulator (Hard)

In this exercise, you will create a simple Pokemon battle simulator using Node.js and object-oriented programming concepts. The simulator should have the following functionality:

- Create a Pokemon class that has the following properties (you can add extra properties id needed):

  - name (String)

  - type (String)

  - hp (Number)

  - attack (Number)

  - defense (Number)

  - speed (Number)

- Create a Pokemon Farm Loop over the provided Poke-dex JSON data, during the iteration, create the Pokemon instance and add to the Pokemon Farm.

- Create a Trainer class that has the following properties

  - name (String)

  - pokemonList (Array of Pokemon)

- Create a method to allow a Trainer to choose **Three** Pokemon for a battle. The Pokemon will be randomly selected from the Pokemon Farm (Selected Pokemon can be re-selected by other trainers).

- Log some messages with console to describe the battle.
  E.g. `PikaChu attack Jason, Damage: 10, Remaining HP: 20/30`

- The "PokemonBattle" class can have the following properties:

  - trainerA (Trainer)

  - trainerB (Trainer)

  - round (Number)

  - winnerOfBattle (Trainer)

- Create a method in "PokemonBattle" class to simulate battles between Pokemon. This should involve calculating damage based on attack and defense stats, and updating the health of each Pokemon accordingly. The battle will be ended if all Pokemon of any trainer are not available to fight (If Pokemon hp is zero, the Pokemon cannot battle anymore).

- You can assume:

```text
- Pokemon with higher speed will attack first

if Pokemon A attack Pokemon B:
- Damage = Pokemon A Attack - Pokemon B Deference

**Attack of Effectiveness:**
Each Pokemon has a certain type, such as fire, water, grass, electric, etc.
Each type has its own strengths and weaknesses, and this can affect the damage dealt in battles.

For example:
- If a fire-type Pokemon is attacking a grass-type Pokemon, the damage will be double of the original damage.
- If a grass-type Pokemon is attacking a fire-type Pokemon, damage will be hal of the original damage.

```

Pokemon Type Chart for this program:

| Attacker\Defender | Normal | Fire | Water | Grass | Electric | Ice | Fighting |
| ----------------- | ------ | ---- | ----- | ----- | -------- | --- | -------- |
| Normal            |        |      |       |       |          |     |          |
| Fire              |        | 1/2  | 1/2   | 2     |          | 2   |          |
| Water             |        | 2    | 1/2   | 1/2   |          |     |          |
| Grass             |        | 1/2  | 2     | 1/2   |          |     |          |
| Electric          |        |      | 2     | 1/2   | 1/2      |     |          |
| Ice               |        | 1/2  | 1/2   | 2     |          | 1/2 |          |
| Fighting          | 2      |      |       |       |          | 2   | 1/2      |

Information of provided Pokemon JSON:

```text
Number of Pokemon = 442

Distribution:
{
  Grass: 78,
  Fire: 53,
  Water: 114,
  Normal: 105,
  Electric: 40,
  Fighting: 29,
  Ice: 23
}

```

&nbsp;

## Exercise 2

Tags: `typescript`, `loop`, `cli`, `promise`, `documentation`, `data-fetching`

&nbsp;

Please please a cli program to do couple of functions:

- greeting

- list all files with specified extension name

- weather forecasting

Function should be triggered with different command line arguments.

Syntax:

```bash
ts-node index.ts <command>

```

&nbsp;

### Function 1 - Greeting (Easy)

```bash
ts-node index.ts greet
```

Display `Hello, World.`

If a name is provided from the command line, it will be displayed in the message.

**Example:**

```bash
ts-node index.ts greet -n Jason
# OR
ts-node index.ts greet --name Jason

```

**Result:**

```bash
Hello, World. Jason

```

&nbsp;

### Function 2 - List all files with specified extension (Medium)

Reuse the source code from WSP003, please write a function to list all files with specified extension in folders/sub-folders.

```bash
ts-node index.ts list

```

If no extra arguments are provided, you can assume the extension is `.js` and starting path is `./`. Otherwise, users can provide their choices

```bash
ts-node index.ts list -e .ts -p ./my-folder
# OR
ts-node index.ts list --ext .ts --path ./my-folder

```

**Bonus**:

Users can ignore some folders by using `-i` or `--ignore`. Default value: `node_modules`

```bash
# user wants to ignore node_modules abd other_folder
ts-node index.ts list -e .ts -p ./my-folder -i node_modules -i other_folder

```

&nbsp;

### Function 3 - Weather Forecasting (Medium)

Weather forecasting with the data from HKG API.

```bash
ts-node index.ts weather

```

Fetch the data using the url: `https://data.weather.gov.hk/weatherAPI/opendata/weather.php?dataType=fnd&lang=en`. Display the result (just like `WEF002`) on the console.

**Bonus:**

Users can control whether displaying on console or saving the data in `.json` file. If flag `-j` or `--json` is provided, please save the data in a `.json` file

```bash
ts-node index.ts weather -j
# OR
ts-node index.ts weather --json

```

**Hints:**

You can use `axios` for fetching the data from the HKG API.

&nbsp;

## Exercise 3 (Hard)

Tags: `typescript`, `data structure`, `linked list`, `oop`

Design a linked list class that can store any numeric value. For instance, to store the value 100, the linked list would be represented as `[1], [0], [0]`. Instantiate two objects to hold two numeric values and subsequently compute their multiplication. The result must also be represented as a linked list.

Sample Test Case:

```ts
const numberA = new LinkedList<string>("1", "2");
const numberB = new LinkedList<string>("1", "2");

const result = numberA.multiply(numberB);
result.displayValue();
// 144
```

&nbsp;
